# Using Let's Encrypt to setup HTTPS

## Prequisites

You need to have a DNS Multitenant Setup
Your site should be accessible via a valid domain
You need root permissions on your server
Note : Let's Encrypt Certificates expire every three months

# Setup Let's Encypt Certificates using bench command

Using Bench Command Just run:

```shell
sudo bench setup lets-encrypt [site-name]
```

You will be faced with several prompts, respond to them accordingly. This command will also add an entry to the crontab of the user that will attempt to renew the certificate every month.

To renew certificates manually you can use:

```shell
sudo bench renew-lets-encrypt
```

----------

# Manual Method

## Download the appropriate Certbot-auto script into /opt

[more info.](https://certbot.eff.org/)

## Stop nginx service

before setting up we need to stop nginx server using command

```shell
sudo service nginx stop
```

## Run Certbot to create ssl certificate

```shell
./opt/certbot-auto certonly --standalone
```

After letsencrypt initializes, you will be prompted for some information. This exact prompts may vary depending on if you've used Let's Encrypt before, but we'll step you through the first time.

### step 1: for first time

At the prompt, enter an email address that will be used for notices and lost key recovery.
Then you must agree to the Let's Encrypt Subscribe Agreement.

### Step 2: for every time setup

Then enter your domain name(s). Note that if you want a single cert to work with multiple domain names (e.g. example.com and www.example.com), be sure to include all of them

### Step3: Certificate Files generated by cerbot

After obtaining the cert, you will have the following PEM-encoded files:

- cert.pem: Your domain's certificate
- chain.pem: The Let's Encrypt chain certificate
- fullchain.pem: cert.pem and chain.pem combined
- privkey.pem: Your certificate's private key

These certificates are stored under /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com folder

### Step4: Configure the certificates for your site(s)

Go to your erpnext sites site_config.json, using bench comman:

```shell
$ cd frappe-bench/sites/{{site_name}}
```

### Step5: Add the following two lines to your site_config.json

```json
"ssl_certificate": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem",
"ssl_certificate_key": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem"
```

**note** To add custom domain name to site with ssl cer. using bench command: 

```shell
$ bench setup add-domain [domainName] --ssl-certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/sahachaigroupe.com/fullchain.pem --ssl-certificate-key /etc/letsencrypt/live/sahachaigroupe.com/privkey.pem
```

### Step6: Regenerate the nginx configuration and restart

```shell
$ bench setup nginx
# Restart the nginx server
$ sudo service nginx start
$ sudo sevice nginnx reload

```

### Auto renewal (experimental)

Login as root or a user with superuser privileges, run crontab -e and enter:

# renew letsencrypt certificates on 1st monday of every month and get an email if it gets executed

MAILTO="mail@example.com"
0 0 1-7 * * [ "$(date '+\%a')" = "Mon" ] && sudo service nginx stop && /opt/certbot-auto renew && sudo service nginx start

bench setup add-domain sahachaigroupe.com --ssl-certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/sahachaigroupe.com/fullchain.pem --ssl-certificate-key /etc/letsencrypt/live/sahachaigroupe.com/privkey.pem